# EvolutionaryAlgorithmFramework

Multi - Objective Optimizer using an EvolutionaryAlgorithmFramework

Optimization problems are often framed in mathematical terms as trying minimize (or maximize) some mathematical function. Often, these “objective functions” are defined in terms of a linear combination of terms, though they need not be. For example:
                                              F(X) = w1X1 + w2X2 + … + wNXN
Where X1, X2, … XN are some measurable attributes of a solution, X, and w1, w2, wN are weighting factors that define the relative importance of the different attributes. Suppose that you are a civil engineer trying to design a bridge. The design of your bridge has certain attributes: vehicle capacity, construction cost, maintenance cost, and so forth. If you have 10 different design options then in theory you could simply score each design by the objective function and choose the best one. There are several problems with this approach. First, it may be difficult if not impossible to define a simple scoring function that automatically captures the relative importance of these different objectives. Secondly, some criteria may be inherently difficult to quantify. For example, maybe the town you are designing the bridge for specifies that they want you to minimize environmental impact. How will you quantify this? Some of these limitations can be addressed by using multi-objective optimization. In multi-objective optimization, what you are really trying to do is minimize several different objectives simultaneously, while trying to find the optimal tradeoffs. One standard way of identifying this optimal tradeoff is to determine the set of non-dominated solutions

If solution A is better than solution B with respect to every objective we care about, then solution A dominates solution B. If you get rid of all the dominated solutions, what are left with are the non-dominated solutions. On the other hand, if you take any two solutions in the non-dominated set, say P and Q, then P will be better than Q in some respects while Q will be better than P in other respects. P doesn’t dominate Q and Q doesn’t dominate P. Returning to our bridge example, a higher-capacity bridge will likely cost more – it is an inherent tradeoff – but you still want to find the optimal tradeoff, that is you want to find for a given vehicle capacity what is the minimum cost, or conversely for a given cost, how can you maximize your vehicle capacity. The concepts of the optimal tradeoff and the non-dominated set extend naturally to more than two objectives in which case what you are really trying to discover is the optimal N-dimensional tradeoff surface.

This project presents a multi - objective optimizer in C#, the framework can be re-used to solve other problems.
